=head1 NAME

age_keytab - Remove old Kerberos keys from a keytab

=head1 SYNOPSIS

age_keytab [I<keytab>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<age_keytab> scans the specified I<keytab>, or the Kerberos default
keytab if none is given, to find keys that should be deleted.
Specifically, it considers principals for which multiple keys are
present and any tickets issued prior to the most recent version are
likely to have expired.  Under those conditions, B<age_keytab> deletes
all keys whose kvno is lower than that found in a newly-issued ticket.

=head1 CAVEATS

The determination as to whether tickets issued with an older key
are likely to have expired is based on the lifetime of a newly-issued
ticket.  Thus, this heuristic may produce incorrect results if the
principal's maximum lifetime has changed, or if the tickets with which
B<age_keytab> is run expire too soon.

=head1 SEE ALSO

rekeymgr(1), getnewkeys(8)

=head1 AUTHOR

The rekey tools were written by Chaskiel Grundman.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

 Copyright (c) 2008-2009, 2013 Carnegie Mellon University.
 All rights reserved.

 Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
 modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
 are met:

 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    distribution.

 3. The name "Carnegie Mellon University" must not be used to
    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
    prior written permission. For permission or any other legal
    details, please contact  
      Office of Technology Transfer
      Carnegie Mellon University
      5000 Forbes Avenue
      Pittsburgh, PA  15213-3890
      (412) 268-4387, fax: (412) 268-7395
      tech-transfer@andrew.cmu.edu

 4. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
    acknowledgment:
    "This product includes software developed by Computing Services
     at Carnegie Mellon University (http://www.cmu.edu/computing/)."

 CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
 THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
 AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY BE LIABLE
 FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
 WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN
 AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING
 OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
